
## Tuesday, March 17

To do:

* *Refuge Notebook* catch-up.
* Early adopter data management homework.
* Blackfish diet analysis.

I fiddled around with the first pair of FASTQ files I had uploaded to mBRAVE. I failed to figure out how to merge the paired FASTQ files. Maybe this functionality is not fully available yet on mBRAVE. I saw that Braukmann et al. [-@braukmann_metabarcoding_2019] used QIIME to pair all of their sequences before uploading them to mBRAVE. Stolz [-@stolz_nestling_2019] used mBRAVE, but with single-end reads. I could not find any other references where methods using mBRAVE were detailed. There appears to be no help, guide, or manual on mBRAVE right now.

I fiddled around with parameters for a while. Selecting "MERGED PAIRED END READS" turned paired end merging on. I am not sure about the trimming and masking. I turned primer masking on and selected trimming the first 26 bp, both of which might remove the primers.

Analytical Parameters Run Specific
1. Trimming\
Trim Front: 26 bp\
Trim End: 0 bp\
Trim Length: 500 bp\
Primer Masking: On\
2. Filtering
Min QV: 10qv
Min Length: 150 bp 
Max Bases with Low QV ( <20): 4.0%
Max Bases with Ultra Low QV ( <10): 1.0%
3. Other Parameters
Pre-Clustering Threshold: None
ID Distance Threshold: 3.0%
Exclude From OTU Threshold: 3.0%
Minimum OTU Size: 1OTU Threshold: 0.0%
4. Paired End (optional - Illumina instruments only)
Paired End Merging: On
Assembler Min Overlap: 25 bp 
Assembler Max Substitution: 5 bp 


