
## Monday, February 3

To do:

* ~~Ship out *Elodea* specimens.~~
* ~~Ship out blackfish stomach contents.~~
* Sandpiper Lake *Elodea* EA.

I packaged live Sandpiper Lake *Elodea* specimens to go out this morning (FedEx tracking #: 813677694043).

I packaged the five samples of blackfish stomach contents from January 30 and packaged these to go out to RTL Genomics this morning (FedEx tracking #: 813677694032).

I worked a little on the the [Kenai National Wildlife Refuge checklist](https://github.com/mlbowser/KenaiNWRspecies), moving three species (*Corticaria ferruginea*, *Enicmus mimus*, and *Xylita laevigata*) to FWSpecies and requested the addition of *Corticarina minuta*, *Cortinarius lucorum*, and *Stephostethus armatulus* to FWSpecies' taxonomy.

I found a data sheet from a 2013 vegetation survey of Vogel Lake. I intend to enter these data into Arctos, but first I wanted to search for what had been documented previously in the watershed, so I converted the HUC12 190203021903 "Miller Creek-Frontal Cook Inlet" watershed. I simplified this using ArcMap's Simplify Polygon tool, with a simplification tolerance of 500 m. I converted this to WKT so I could run a GBIF search [@gbiforg_gbif_2020-2].

I finished sorting Berlese sample [KNWR:Ento:11362](http://arctos.database.museum/guid/KNWR:Ento:11362) that I had started sorting on January 6.

Contents:

identification|count
:---|---:
Lepidoptera|1
Collembola|23
Coleoptera|1
Arachnida|260
Geophilomorpha|2
Lithobiomorpha|1
Myrmicinae|1
Nematoda|1
*Cixius*|1

There still were some minute mites in this sample. I had spent about 3–4 hours on this sample. I may need to use some kind of time limit, maybe 2–3 hours per sample.

I uploaded the 2013 data sheet from Vogel Lake onto Arctos [@bella_Vogel_2013], entered observation data from this data sheet, and made an [Arctos project](http://arctos.database.museum/project/10003326) for these data.
