
## Tuesday, June 23

I took the Cybersecurity - Federal Information Systems Security Awareness (FISSA) training due June 30.

I received word of a new paper on birches [@rowe_how_2020], which I pored over. This work does confirm what we thought about the relative distributions of *Betula neoalaskana* (*Betula pendula* ssp. *mandshurica*) and *Betula papyrifera* in Alaska. They did not find any obvious pattern for something that would match what we expect for *Betula kenaica*.

Their samples 1031, 8576, 8577, 8578 are all from the Russian River area from Along the Sterling Highway up to Lower Russian Lake and are all identified as *Betula neoalaskana*.

I am most curious about the different genotypes they obtained in the Anchorage area, Alaska's biggest city. It is peculiar that these were not picked up in other areas. These different genotypes were both on Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson several miles north of the main part of the city. I do not know if ornamental birches were planted anywhere on the base, but a variety of ornamental birches including *Betula papyrifera*, *Betula papyrifera* 'Multistem' (maybe the same as *Betula papyrifera* 'Clump'), *Betula pendula* 'Dalecarlica', and *Betula pendula* 'Youngii' are sold and planted in the Anchorage area (one example: <https://faltzland.com/projects/deciduous-trees/>).

I started looking into mapping the two birch genomes we received using bwa (<https://github.com/lh3/bwa>) to map against the *Betula pendula* genome of Salojärvi et al. [-@salojarvi_genome_2017] (<https://genomevolution.org/CoGe/GenomeInfo.pl?gid=35079>,<https://genomevolution.org/CoGe/GenomeInfo.pl?gid=35080>).
