
## Friday, March 20

To do:

* *Refuge Notebook* catch-up.
* Early adopter data management homework.
* Blackfish diet analysis.

I set up a project on Arctos for the blakfish diet work at <http://arctos.database.museum/project/10003367>.

I was able to get the SCVUC pipeline going under linux mint, but there was a problem with the reverse primer. I did overcome this later by reverting to the original reverse primer in the ml-jg script.

I kept running into trouble with running out of memory for the RDP Classifier [@wang_naive_2007]. The system would kill the process after it used all memory. The script asks for 8 Gb of RAM; this computer has 4. I tried modifying the script to ask for only 2 Gb, but then RDP Classifier failed within Java, again running out of memory. I will try repartitioning to add a bunch of swap space on that computer.

### Telecon at 11:00

* Send Mark a list of planned work for next week.
* Put together plans for this field season.

Next week work list:

* Finish blackfish diet analysis to get an article into the upcoming issue of the *Newsletter of the Alaska Entomological Society*.
* Catch up on formatting *Refuge Notebook* articles and posting them to the CMS.
* Work on metadata / next data management steps for the Kenai NWR snowshoe hare dataset as part of work for the regional data management early adopters' team.
* Write article on our finding *Bimastos parvus*, a second native earthworm for Alaska, for the *AKES Newsletter*?
* Get started on Slikok watershed project occupancy analysis?

