
## Wednesday, June 24

I finished editing and sent off this week's *Refuge Notebook* article.

Preparing answers for the KBBI interview this evening:

* Why is pollination so important?

This goes back to why many living things reproduce sexually at all. It is evidently quite valuable to plants and many other living things to have an exchange of genetic information. Living things that do not reproduce sexually can end up in a genetic dead-end. They may be successful for a while, but since a population of clones has no genetic variation, they will be susceptible to changes in the environment or inhereted genetic errors. For clones, there is no way to adapt. 

Unlike most animals, plants cannot move around to find mates. Moving pollen between plants is the way that seed plants share genetic variation, enabling them to adapt to their changing environment.

In a similar way that you could measure how important something is by how much money people spend on it, you can tell that pollination is important to plants by the amount of resources that plants spend to make pollen and get it delivered to other plants. This spring everything around my house in Kasilof was repeatedly coated with pollen from the spruce trees. It is a tremendous amount of pollen when you think about it.

In northern latitudes, pollinating insects are actually less important than in temperate and tropical regions. Around here, all of our native trees, alders, willows, grasses, and sedges are wind-pollinated. 

For wind pollination to work, each plant must produce a large amount of pollen and there has to be a lot of the same species of plants around. For plants that are rare or sparse, it is unlikely that pollen from one plant will get to another.

For many plants, it makes much more sense to basically pay for pollination services with nectar and pollen. The pollinators are much more efficient than wind pollination, especially for smaller plants and rare plants.

* Although you are an entomologist, are there other pollinators besides insects?

Sure, the other groups of important pollinators are hummingbirds and bats. We do not have any pollinating bats up here, but we do have migratory hummingbirds.

* Many people recognize honey bees as pollinators, however honey bees are not native to north
america. What are some native pollinators found in Alaska?

Wow, we have many native pollinators, mostly native bees, flies, and wasps, moths, butterflies, and beetles. There is a broad diversity of insects that visit flowers to obtain nectar as an energy food. Flowers are fun to watch because you never know what insects you might see stopping by to get a snack. Not all of these are very good at moving pollen around, though.

Bumblebees are our most conspicious native pollinators. A recent paper listed ? species of bumblebees from Alaska.

We also have leafcutter bees, masked bees, and miner bees.

Among flies, the hover flies or flower flies are the most conpsicuous. These are common on flowers and many have yellow and black markings that mimic wasps and bees. We also have moths that mimics bees and wasps.

A lot of muscoid flies - relatives of house flies - appear to be important pollinators here. There are in any case numerous.

* Are there any alaskan plants that are dependent on a sole pollinator? Are there any Alaskan insects that have a mutualistic or symbiotic relationship with natives plants?

We do have some fairly specialized pollination relationships. Our louseworts are only pollinated by bumblebees, for example. 

Certainly most of our pollinators and insect-pollinated plants are generalists, forming relationships with many species.

* What are some of the biggest threats to a healthy insect population?

In general, habitat destruction, pesticide use, and non-native species are believed to have contributed to declines in insect abundance. Locally, we have far less habitat destruction and pesticide use than in Europe or the lower 48. Non-native species and climate change pose the greatest threat to pollinators here.

* What are some insects that I can kill guilt free. How can I kill them in a responsible manner?

I would generally not kill any insects unless they are causing problems. The vast majority of insects have natural roles in the environment. Do not assume an insect is harmful.

That said, insects are our most important competitors for our own food and some even feed on use. I think you can smash a mosquito or snipe fly that is biting you. It is also legitimate to destroy caterpillars that are eating your food. I don't think that you need to think too hard about the most ethical way to kill them; I would concern myself more with what is effective.

* What are some detrimental insects that have parasitic relationships to Native plants and animals?

I don't like to categorize living things as detrimental, good, or bad, unless there is a specific context. Insects are just insects. Each is just doing what it is made to do. They can certainly cause problems for us, but I do not think that makes them bad.

Many insects feed on or parasitize native plants and animals. Take moose flies, for example, which are large, orange-tinted flies that depend on moose for all stages of their life cycle. Larvae eat moose droppings and adults feed on moose blood.

Or consider willow rose gall midges that cause willows to form compact rosettes of leaves that look like green roses. The fly larva causes the willow to make a cozy home for it. This reduces the growth of the willow plant.

* Have you noticed any rises in non-native insects within the last few years? Has climate change affected this rise?

We have seen increases in a number of non-native species, especially as they become established here. A cluster fly was first found in Alaska several years ago and is now abundant in Homer. Large yellow underwing moths, green alder sawflies, and multiple species of birch leaf miners are all recently established non-native insects that appear to have increased in abundance in recent decades. Watch out for the blackberry skeletonizer, which arrived in Alaska very recently.

I think the best climate-related example is the spruce aphid. It arrived in SE Alaska in the 60s or 70s and made its way northwest in coastal Alaska. What allowed it to take off in Homer was a run of warm winters.


* How can people provide habitat for Native pollinators?

I am not an expert on designing pollinator gardens, but I would plant a variety of hummingbird and insect-pollinated plants. Columbines, indian paintbrush, fireweed, salmonberry, and currants are supposed to be good for hummingbirds. Blueberries, raspberries, fireweed, rusty menziesia, and many other native flowers. 

Cow parsnip or pushki are one of the most fun plants to observe pollinators on. Many insects, especially flies, congregate on the white platforms formed by these flowering heads. Certain predacious sawflies (which are not flies) routinely stalk these flowers, nabbing flies. Keep an eye out for goldenrod crab spiders

* Salmon eat insects. Which insects do they eat/ which insects are important to healthy salmon ecosystems?

There are some fisheries biologists around here that would be able to answer this better than I can, but young silver and king salmon do eat mainly aquatic invertebrates and terrestrial invertebrates that end up in the water. Interestingly, non-native earthworms have been shown to be important locally in places where both the worms and the fish occur. Insects are less important to juvenile red salmon, which feed on zooplankton and small crustaceans. Juvenile pink salmon generally do not feed in fresh water, but migrate to saltwater as soon as they are mature enough.

### KBBI pollinator interview at 18:00

